# details from meeting notice
"This is just an announcement regarding an upcoming ANC 5C07 Limited Special Meeting, Wednesday August 3, 2022, as we had not planned an August meeting this information is of community concerns. Nevertheless, please see the information below for the agenda, and how to attend. Hope to see you there.

Agenda:  
- Chuck Brown Day Celebration Presentation (DPR)
- F&EMS Fire Station Proposal - Woodridge-Langdon
- Medical Cannabis Dispensary Update 

# notable attendees
- Jeremiah Montague Jr., Commissioner 5C07
- Christopher Dyer, DPR
- manager of Chuck Brown Day project
- Commander Ralph McLean, MPD

# Minutes
Aaron Eastlack case number: 20780
1817 Irving St. NE

- 6:41p: meeting begins
- 6:41p: Dispensary is not happening; going to Ivy City instead due to Council cap
- 6:45p: begin presentation on Chuck Brown Day 2022
  - traffic officers, off-site parking, safety/medical staff on-site, trash collection afterwards, there will be portapotties on-site
  - Commissioner asks to make sure portapotties are in place at the start. Commissioner is concerned about post-covid "people on top of each other" and "few people wearing masks"; stresses he will be wearing his and sanitizing his hands. Commissioner doesn't want to repeat the portapotty problem of last year.
  - Commissioner wants to make sure there are doorhangers for all adjacent streets to make sure folks know the date so they aren't surprised. Notes he got told by someone he went to high school with before hearing from DPR
  - "lisa" won't belabor the toilet thing. Notes folks were knocking on her door last year to use the bathroom. Stresses they should even try to have them there the day before so the workers have them. Christopher Dyer stresses they will keep stressing the portapotty issue. Lisa also notes she thinks they're pretty good about trash, but some folks hang around parked in their cars and leave residual trash, so maybe they should be made to move on time. 20th street; they have closed it and kept it open and her recommendation is to close it, because it's not that wide and traffic can't get through when cars are parked on both sides.
  - 6:54: VJ drops in the chat that he'd second the recommendation to close 20th St so folks can safely move around the space.
  - 6:56: Yolanda is joining over the phone and having audio issues. She has two safety concerns: people rent out their driveways, and cars end up blocking the sidewalks and forcing people to walk on the street. Drivers dangerous pass and last year there was insufficient traffic controls. She requests additional traffic control at 20th and Franklin and possibly 18th and Franklin.

Christopher Dyer
Community Engagement Manager
Department of Parks and Recreation
1275 1st Street NE
Washington DC 20002
(202) 702-9453 (cell)
dpr.dc.gov

- 7:01: Eastlack case. They are simply trying to repair in place an existing deck without change, but it requires a zoning variance and the previous deck was not properly documented at DCRA. Presenter/owner works at DCRA and has confirmed all of this. Commissioner Montague states a concern that this would be before the full Commission meets; in his personal opinion, because it's facing an alley and an MU-4 zone, so he doesn't think there should be a problem at BZA but he doesn't speak for him. He'll write it up and send it out to the Commissioners to recommend not a problem.

- 7:04: Commissioner moves on to a project in 5C02 adjacent to 5C07 and Commissioner Rogers and Montague are working together. Across the street from Langdon Elementary School on Evarts, a small one-story building called Model Cities. Model Cities is a senior resource building, which provides many important services to area seniors. They received a TOPS (?) request to make a curb cut along Evarts St. across from the elementary school, and minimal other details. Didn't create uch heartburn, although pickup/dropoff traffic can be bad. As Commissioner Montague waded through the drawings, he saw they'd removed two curb cuts and put in three new ones, and the new one would be on Queens Chapel Road.
- 7:08: Commissioner Montague attempts to open a document but struggles.
- 7:11: if this proposal goes forward, the Council will have to close the unbuilt stretch of 20th St. south of Evarts
- The other issue flagged to the developer is there's a significant drop in elevation
- This is DC government property, which gives it preference
- This is one of several proposals for a firehouse; an alternative proposal to building in Fort Lincoln.
- This is still in the review process and this is informational only. Fire/EMS will have to do a formal presentation after the review process. There is the potential for demolishing the old Model Cities building, a new two-story building, replacement surface parking, a new firehouse with additional surface parking with curb cut on Queens Chapel for emergency vehicles (two curb cuts on Evarts and one on Queens Chapel
- the RIA/14th Firehouse will be closing and this would be the replacement (or the other proposal)
- VJ notes concerns about emergency vehicle noise right outside of an elementary school. Also concerns with additional surface parking on a forested area, and extra curb cuts that seem like they could be consolidated to reduce conflict zones on sidewalks where children are likely to be walking.
