---
title: "2022 Election Survey Responses"
permalink: /issues/surveys2022/
excerpt: "I didn't realize there'd be so many"
author_profile: false
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/voting.jpg
  overlay_filter: rgba(127, 127, 127, 0.5)
  caption: "[Parent-Child Voting](/assets/images/voting.jpg)"
categories: misc
---
# tl;dr
- I wrote a lot of words in response to different interest groups weighing or otherwise providing resources for the 2022 ANC elections
- Parking words here for any particularly open-ended responses I wrote in response
- Will update with links as these see the light of day and possibly earn endorsements

# League of Women Voters
These respones are limited to 750 characters per answer and are just going to be published as-is for voter reference materials.

### What is the most important issue facing your Single Member District and how do you intend to address it?
I believe the most important issue facing my SMD is unsafe driver behavior on our roads. While this is not a new problem, it has worsened over the pandemic years, with drivers routinely ignoring pedestrian right-of-way, speed limits, stop signs, and even red lights. I will set up a dashboard to coordinate and consolidate efforts on a block-by-block and intersection-by-intersection basis within our SMD, to keep pressure on DDOT to prioritize our neighborhood for improvements, make sure we leave no existing Service Request to languish without follow-up inquiry, and provide multiple visualizations and a print option for neighbors to receive the information however they do it best. Read further at: https://vj4anc.com/priorities/.

### How will you engage with residents to be an effective Commissioner, especially reaching those who are unfamiliar with the role and value of ANCs?
I know that residents have varying levels of time and interest to dedicate to ANC affairs. To that end, I will seek to summarize, at multiple levels of detail, every issue and event I'm involved in. I have already begun this work at https://vj4anc.com/issues/. On each issue page, I seek to include a map, very basic summary (3-5 bullet points), more detailed summary, clearly marked opinions, and links to source materials for further self-study if desired. I'll be writing these pages on development projects, alcohol license cases, traffic safety areas of concern, and any meeting I hold or attend, among other topics. I will also be distributing in print form for neighbors who consume information better offline.

### Is there a question you wish we had asked? If so, what is the question and how would you answer it?
(didn't respond to this one,b but I can add a response up until the election if anyone has any ideas)

# Greater Greater Washington
[ggwash](http://ggwash.org)'s endorsement would mean a lot to me, as I feel strong alignment to the organization on issues. They will be making endorsements, including in uncontested races like mine.

# Erin Palmer
Erin Palmer ran an amazing grassroots campaign for DC Council Chairwoman in the 2022 Primaries, and it's the reason many of today's ANC candidates met and were inspired to run. I'm honored that Erin was willing to include me in her small set of endorsements, even if it meant submitting some very succinct materials.

### one sentence about who you are
VJ is a lifelong area resident, passionate advocate for his community, and always the first person to make a spreadsheet.

### one sentence about what you hope to do in the office
VJ wants to make Langdon and all of DC safe, vibrant, and welcoming for long-term, new, and future neighbors alike, by implementing comprehensive traffic safety improvements and advocating for more transportation options, more retail, and more housing.